Hello there lovely people. Politics from
Nintendo Life here and today we're
reviewing for you Vampire Crawlers the
Turbo Wild Card from Vampire Survivors
on the Nintendo Switch. This review was
originally written by the lovely Parker
Johnson and has been adapted for video
by me. But anyway, that's more than
enough waffling. Let's dive right into
things.
Sometimes a game is so good it creates
its own genre. whether you call it a
survivors like bullet heaven or
something else entirely. Vampire
survivors pretty much invented an entire
rogike subg genre. So when your game
creates a whole new genre, where do you
go next? Uh cards. Vampire Crawlers is
the latest game from the vampire
survivor studio Punkle. The greatest
trick that has been hiding in plain
sight is that Vampire Crawlers is not a
sequel, nor is it even really a
spin-off. It's a sort of adaptation. It
translates the survival sensation to a
deck builder. really really well,
twisting familiar tenets into a new
creation, and it's mostly structurally
sound, even if it sometimes buckles
under its own weight. Vampire Crawlers
is all about combos. Like traditional
deck builders, you have a pool of mana,
and each card costs mana to play.
However, the order in which you play
your cards matters enormously. If you
play cards in ascending mana cost order,
you'll get a combo, multiplying the
damage, armor, or other effects you gain
from the next card played in that combo.
For instance, if you play the whip,
which costs zero mana, and then play
garlic, which costs one mana, garlic
will deal double its usual damage. And
that's not the only combination
mechanic, either. Evolutions are also
here, allowing you to combine your cards
into more powerful ones. Most of these
formulas are basically the same as they
were in Vampire Survivors. So, if you
know your way around those weapons,
you'll be right at home combining them
here. Our go-to very quickly became No
Future, an explosive bouncing device
created by combining the rune tracer and
armor. It's not only rather powerful and
scales really well with the duplication
ring, but it's also possibly the sole
reason for the photosensitivity warning
that displays when you launch the game.
If there's anything to complain about
regarding combat, it's that it's a
little bit hard to strategize at times.
New cards are gain by leveling up, much
like how you would receive weapons and
equipment in Survivors. However, when
you level up, there's no way to look at
your deck to see which mana cost card
you could use more cards of to boost
your combo or create possible
evolutions. You do gain more control
over these level ups as you buy more
upgrades in the game, such as the
ability to skip rewards or banish
certain cards from the reward
possibilities, but it would undeniably
be nice to be able to lay plans out a
little bit more carefully and with more
knowledge. Certain user interface
elements can be a little tough to manage
in fights as well. It borrows the very
helpful intention system, allowing you
to see how much damage and shield the
enemies will be looking to use. However,
it's hard to tell how close enemies are
to death. If you hover over a card, you
get to see a preview of how much damage
it will do to an enemy, and those
numbers will be read if it's going to
take one out. But because of not having
max health numbers, it's hard to know
whether your turn would be better spent
being more aggressive to take out
enemies or building up armor. Although
in truth, very much like Vampire
Survivors, once you get a powerful
enough build, you don't even really need
to think about the numbers. You just
kill everything. Where Vampire Crawlers
really lets its combat sing is in its
lack of limitations. There are cards
that not only allow you to increase your
mana, but also draw additional cards as
well, and this is the easiest deck
builder we've played to essentially
create an endless turn. Whilst there are
some mechanics built in to curb these
infants, you can continue pushing your
luck and keeping the numbers going up
forever if that's your cup of tea. But
the rub of it is that there's no limit
on how many cards you can have in your
hand at once or indeed your mana pool.
The only truly limiting thing is getting
the right cards to make your build work.
And it wouldn't be a game in the Vampire
Survivor series without an absolute
boatload of unlocks. You know, new
cards, characters, other gameplay
modifiers. They're all unlocked as you
play. And whilst you may eventually find
the character and cards you turn towards
whenever you get the option, the
constant drip of new things makes it
always feel like we had at least one new
way to freshen up our next turn. You can
even modify cards in some really
interesting ways. At one point, we
created a whip that actually cost minus
one mana, meaning the number to start
combos was well, it was one lower than
zero, and you get one mana just for
playing it. However, under the weight of
all this content and depth, there are
some cracks that start to show. We had a
frequent visual bug where despite all
enemies being defeated, one or two were
just still there on screen. It's easy
enough to just walk past them, of
course, but it does leave things being a
little bit confusing. The worst bug we
faced, though, was after defeating a
boss encounter, and that encounter just
didn't end. We were able to summon
another enemy just to defeat it and
therefore end the encounter. But if we
didn't have the means to do that, we
would have had to just reset the run
entirely, which was going surprisingly
well. It's not clear whether these
issues are Switch 2 specific, as we
played the Switch One version on a
Switch 2, and in fact, there is a native
Switch 2 version as well, which I'll be
talking about in my personal thoughts.
But we're just going to have to cross
two of our fingers that they're going to
be fixed eventually. And speaking of the
Switch One version on Switch 2, Vampire
Crawlers really sings in handheld mode.
With how busy the screen can get with
various effects and how crowded your
hand can get, the touchcreen is an
absolute godsend in these moments. You
can tap pretty much everything on the
screen to see what's going on with it
and get definitions for certain stats.
You can also rearrange your hand using
the touchcreen, making things a lot more
manageable. It's that dream kind of I've
only got half an hour to play a game
kind of rogike. If you're going to
create a deck builder out of Vampire
Survivors, we think Vampire Crawlers is
pretty much exactly the result you'd
hope for. If you ignore the bugs, it
combines all of the weapons and
power-ups from the first game with
clever fusions and twists on traditional
deck building tempo. Even things that
are annoying, like not being able to
check your deck when selecting an
upgrade and those hard to track damage
numbers, feel more like quirks of the
franchise. It scratches that itch in the
brain in a familiar way. And the
euphoric feeling of creating an
absolutely broken build still feels
fantastic. Vampire Crawl is the Turbo
Wild Card from Vampire Survivors. You're
getting an 8 out of 10 from us.
Now that we've got the official stuff
out the way, it's time for Alex's
personal thoughts. And I've not sunk
like an enormous amount of time into
this game. I would say probably less
than 10 hours, but
it's already got its hooks in me. I am
very much a fan of rogue likes, but at
the same time, the card-based deck
building ones never quite got my never
well, they never quite grabbed me. Like,
I enjoyed Slay the Spire, but I played
it for a bit and I was like, okay, you
know, and then I just moved on, you
know, I enjoyed it, but then I moved on.
And I'm I'm not getting that with this
game, which is both fantastic and
slightly terrifying. It's that classic
trying to synergize and just flat out
break the game with the biggest numbers
possible. And I don't think I'm anywhere
near approaching that level just yet. As
you can probably tell from the footage,
and as the fact that I said, I'm not
very far in the game, but I'm having an
absolute blast with it. I've played the
Switch 2 version as well, and to be
brutally honest with you, there really
isn't any meaningful difference between
the two. The Switch 2 edition does have
mouse controls, but to be brutally
honest, this isn't a game that really
demands or even really benefits from
them all that much. I know Parker was a
big fan of the touchscreen controls, but
to be brutally honest, I didn't really
get any benefit from them. That's just a
personal thing by me, though. If you
like mouse controls and you think this
is the game to have them, then get the
Switch 2 version, I suppose. Although,
if you get the Switch one version, it is
a free upgrade to the Switch 2 version,
but it is also a separate download.
Like, it doesn't just upgrade your
version. It's just a completely separate
download that is completely free. And
this got me worried that save data
wouldn't transfer between them. But I
loaded up the Switch 2 version and it
was like, "Hey, you've got some Switch
One uh save data. Do you want to
transfer it over?" So, that was that was
a massive weight off my mind. But as far
as performance and resolution go, I
really cannot tell a difference between
the two. It is just as pixelated on
Switch One as it is on Switch 2, and it
has the same weird performance dips when
you do big things, you know? I mean, you
know, you're doing big things, but given
the scale of this game, it should be
running flawlessly. So, it's a little
bit disappointing, but it doesn't
actually affect the gameplay in any
meaningful way, so it's fine. Like I
said though, get the Switch one version
first and then get the Switch two
version for free just because then
you've got two te technically two
versions of the game so you can have
like one that's on a Switch one that
you've got and one on a Switch 2. I
mean, I don't really see any major
benefit to it, but a two is better than
one. But to sum everything up, I've been
really enjoying this game. And if you
look at this and you think you might,
I'm pretty sure you're going to.